New tutorial for NodeJS & TypeScript (#1362)
howtographql/howtographql: content/backend/graphql-node-typescript/3-graphql-server.md

      }
    }
  });

  server.listen(3000, "0.0.0.0", () => {
    console.log(`Server is running on http://localhost:3000/`);
  });
}

main();
```

</Instruction>

You can now try to run your server, and you should be able to run our query in a HTTP-based GraphQL request. 

<Instruction>

If you have `curl` installed on your machine, you should be able to run and see the GraphQL response (you can also use any kind of HTTP requests tools, like [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)):

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/graphql -H "Content-type: application/json" --data-raw '{"query": "query { info }"}'
```
</Instruction>

So let's break down the code snippet for the server:

1. Your created an new HTTP request handler, of type `POST`, based on the `/graphql` path. 
1. The handler takes the incoming raw HTTP request and builds a `Request` object out of it.
1. Then, the `getGraphQLParameters` method of `graphql-helix` extracts all the neccesary information from the raw request. 
1. The `processRequest` gets all the input parameters, and runs the GraphQL request pipeline for us.
1. The result of the GraphQL operation is being returned and sent to the client.  

> > GraphQL-Helix supports real-time GraphQL and stream-based responses, that's why your code need to check it's result before sending it. At the moment, our server only supports regular responses (`type="RESPONSE"`). You'll later add support for more transports.  

Reviewer: This sentence introduces a lot of concepts (stream-based responses, transports) that a beginner is unlikely to be familiar with. Please simply this sentence, explain the necessary concepts and provide appropriate resources where necessary.

```suggestion
> GraphQL-Helix supports real-time GraphQL and stream-based responses, that's why your code needs to check the result before sending it. At the moment, our server only supports regular responses (`type="RESPONSE"`). You'll later add support for more transports.  
```

### The complete GraphQL execution pipeline

A complete GraphQL flow is consists of the following steps:

> 1. Schema building - first, make sure that you have a GraphQL schema ready-to-use (built as executable schema). 

Reviewer: This seems like a warning or instruction whereas it should be a step in the GraphQL Flow.

1. `parse` - takes the GraphQL operation and parse it into a `DocuemntNode`.
1. `validate` - uses the parsed GraphQL operation with the GraphQL schema, and validate it to make sure it matches the schema.
1. Variables - GraphQL operations allow you to pass variables, which are just JSON object. 

> 1. Context building - GraphQL allow you to pass a custom object, called `context`, and this object will be available for your resolvers. 

Reviewer: Are these steps in the GraphQL flow? The way it is written, they seem more like features supported by GraphQL.

1. `execute` - takes the operation and runs the resovlers based on the selection-set.

> With `graphql-helix`, this flow becomes simpler because you can just use `processRequest`.

Reviewer: Why does it become easier? What `processRequest` actually does is not clarified.

import fastify from "fastify";
import { getGraphQLParameters, processRequest, Request, renderGraphiQL, shouldRenderGraphiQL } from "graphql-helix";
import { schema } from "./schema";

async function main() {
  const server = fastify();

  server.route({
    method: ["POST", "GET"],
    url: "/graphql",
    handler: async (req, reply) => {
      const request: Request = {
        headers: req.headers,
        method: req.method,
        query: req.query,
        body: req.body,
      };

      if (shouldRenderGraphiQL(request)) {
        reply.header("Content-Type", "text/html");
        reply.send(
          renderGraphiQL({
            endpoint: "/graphql",
          })
        );

        return;
      }

      const { operationName, query, variables } = getGraphQLParameters(request);

      const result = await processRequest({
        request,
        schema,
        operationName,
        query,
        variables,
      });

      if (result.type === "RESPONSE") {
        reply.send(result.payload);
      } else {
        reply.send({ error: "Stream not supported at the moment" });
      }
    }
  });

  server.listen(3000, "0.0.0.0");
}

main();
```

</Instruction>

> Now, run the server, and try to access `http://localhost:3000/graphql` in your browser. You should see GraphiQL UI, and from there you can explore the schema, the documentation, and even try to run queries! 

Reviewer: You should provide a screenshot of what the user should expect to see. Furthermore, you should explain some of the "basics" of the graphiql UI so the user understands what they are looking at.
